1 :What is DevOps
Ans: DevOps is the process of improving the Application Delivery, By ensuring that there is a proper automation with code quality and ensuring continuous monitoring and continuous testing.


Day 2:
SDLC -Software development life cycle
Planning -> Defining -> Designing -> Building -> Testing -> Deploy
 As a DevOps engineer ->Building -> Testing -> Deploy   


Day 3:
Hypervisor :A hypervisor is a software that you can use to run multiple virtual machines on a single physical machine
        (Break the Pysical server to logically many)


Kubernetes:

1- what is the diffrence between docker and kubernstus
Ans: docker is a container platform , K8 is container orchstation  enviournment that offers capabilities like autohealing, auto scaling,
     clusturing and enterprise level support like loadbalencing.
     
2- what are the main components of K8 architecture
Ans : 1- control plane:APi server, sheduler, control manager, ETCD 
           -api server :take all request from external world.
            -scheduler :its schedule the works.
            -ETCD : store all information 
            -controller managements :
      2- Data plane :kubelet-managing the pod , kube-proxy- networking components , contaioner runtime-


3-diffrence b/w k8 and docker swarm.
    k8 is better suited for large and middle orgainaisation, k8 is offers more scalablity.k8 huge 3rd party support.

4- diffrence b//w docker container and k8 pods 
    k8 pods is a run time specification of a container

5- what is a namespace in k8
    namespace is a logical isolation of resources, network,policies, rbac and everything.

6- what is the role of kube-proxy
    kube-proxy basically about configuring the networking eules in each of the node.

7- what are the diffrent services in K8
         - load balancing :
        - service discovery : pods will identify using label and selectors
        - expose to external world

8- diffrence b/w load balencer and NodePort service

9- what is the role of kubelet
    kubelet manage the containers that are sheduled to run on that node.it ensure that containers are running healhy, and that the resourcesthey need are available.

10- Day to Day activites in K8
    we mange k8 cluster our organaisation.we ensure applications are deployed on k8 cluster.and ensure there is no issue with application 
    and we setup motiotoring on k8 cluster .....